---
layout: post
title:  "Study The Classics"
date:   2018-02-01 04:39:09 -0600
categories: AwarriorBe update
---
This posting is intended to *eventually* become something of a Preface ... it will always be in the state of *becoming* a Preface, even after the book is printed ... that is to say that it is in no way, shape or form intended to authoritative, exhaustive or comprehensive -- it is dreadfully incomplete right now, but it will NEVER be fully complete.

# Preface

**In code repositories, always read the README ... in books, always read the Preface.**  You don't need to spend a lot of time on the README or the Prefact ... but at least glance at them and definitely read them more thoroughly if you actually plan to use the repository or book or any similar work in any detail or explore them in any depth.  OTHERWISE, you will necessarily be taking things out of context ... you will waste your time struggling with phantoms or ghosts of ideas rather than actually having any clue about THE idea or what kinds of thoughts, arguments, ideas that the author was attempting to get at.

In order to get anything from a book, it's generally necessary to fully commit to inhabiting the author's mind or to understand the author as the author intends to be understood, but it is also necessary to attempt to *see around the corners* or to flank the author and see the shortcomings and weaknesses in the author's assumptions or reasoning and in the foundation and architecture of the author's thought. As you read, you cannot afford to passively accept anything -- you must really explore whether or not something is really true or whether it really squares with your experience in your life and interactions with others, in your experience on the jiu jitsu mat or at the firing range, in your enterprises and political activities.

## Title

There are three keywords in this title ... "Essence" "Being" and "Warrior" ... the **order is significant**. The MOST important keyword to grasp is "Essence" ... the majority of understanding the topic covered in this book boils down to really understanding what we are trying to get at when we talk about "Essence."  The remainder of what we are really trying to understand is what we mean by "Being" something ... the "Warrior" keyword therefore is relatively insignificant and completely insignificant or even dangerous if we do not FIRST pay attention to the "Essensce of Being" something.

### Essence

Since this book is about "Essence" you should understand that this book is primarily about philosophy and how serious philosophy is done by serious philosophers. If you are not interested at all in that kind of thing, you should stop right NOW and not waste your time going any further. Life is short; there are plenty of other things to do with your time.

### Being

The mastery of "being" is about fully occupying and owning every possible facet of a topic ... at first, when we are learning anything, we cannot hope to fully BE something ... we can observe, then imitate, try, play with concepts, monkey around, experiment [hopefully in ways that don't KILL us], fail, recover, adjust our understanding, maybe go back and learn what we missed, analysis the root cause of how we failed, begin again, try to imitate better, experiment again and keep repeating this process of mastering our ability to BE something.  But, fundamentally, we can just google something or read about it on wikipedia ... we must do it, before we can really BE it ... that means that we necessarily must *fake it, until we make it* ... it also means that everyone [who is still learning and isn't just a calcified fossil] is still faking it, until they make it.

### Warrior

Warriors are committed to FIGHTING to advance the cause of a mission ... they NEVER quit on that mission. This means that warriors must train to develop the DISCIPLINE necessary for NEVER quitting. DISCIPLINE will carry the warrior when it is not possible to think and serious battles and war is ultimately about being in a position where it is simply impossible to THINK. This is why DISCIPLINE EQUALS FREEDOM ... it is impossible to think your way or reason your way to freedom, freedom only happens through DISCIPLINE, ie "freedom isn't free."  It is important to think about the mission BEFORE committing to it ... unless this is done, unless the mission is fully thought through, fully accepted, fully OWNED beforehand, it will either be abandoned, or worse, the discipline and sacrifice of the warriors fighting for a mission they don't own will result in nothing other than chaos, mayhem, violence and an acceleration of entropic decline. Obviously, warriors should attempt to be more than just pawns or mindless deliverers of chaos, mayhem and violence ... but no warrior can ever be perfect in that respect. ONLY warriors can deliver freedom or deliver better freedoms ... but humanity will never have too much freedom or freedoms of a high enough quality.  There will always be a NEED for warriors.

## Background

What follows is a teensy bit of an annotated reading list ... this list is an introductory subset of the larger reading list that will be explored in more detail in the book itself ... since it is about background, this introductory reading list will give you an idea of what kind of background you should have before reading the book AND it gives you an idea of where the author is going to be coming from.  

Obviously, you are free to use this list however you wish, clone this page and revise it, rip it apart or do whatever you want with it ... but you should read in order to read more; you you should read develop your own reading list -- resist being a one-idea or one-book person -- that's not good for you because it makes you too predictable, too unidimensional, too easy to control.  Of course, it's probably even best to resist being a one-reading-list person ... regardless of how much you read, try to READ more than you do now. That does NOT mean that you should become a layabout who does nothing but read. You should read during your downtime, but read more efficiently and read faster; THINK FASTER.  Your reading comprehension and speed, along with your ability to think faster and *cut to the chase* with improve through exercise -- stop watching videos or movies or just listening to podcasts or audiobooks and imagining that you have learned something.

It's worth repeating ... **if you want to learn, you really must READ more to DO things more efficiently ... and then find ways to READ more, to do more ... you know that you must do things, you know that you must train -- but, in the downtime when you are not doing or training, you cannot possibly read enough.**

VDH ...[The Landmark Thucydides: A Comprehensive Guide to the Peloponnesian War](https://www.amazon.com/Landmark-Thucydides-Comprehensive-Guide-Peloponnesian-ebook/dp/B0036QVOKU) ... this is an important book because it is a gateway to a vast literature on the shrewd Spartan general and scientific historian [Thucydides](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thucydides) and his impact [and the reactions against that impact] on the most fundamental and basic thinking in the history of war and how warriors and leaders approach conflict. You can quarrel with this literature all you want, but you cannot deny how it fundamentally shapes how the "attack and defend mindsets" that characterize the western mind and how western minds think about warriors and leadership.  This ultimately includes semi-modern thinkers like [Carl von Clausewitz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_von_Clausewitz), author of [On War](https://www.amazon.com/War-Carl-von-Clausewitz-ebook/dp/B005R9EB68), who have have had such a profound impact on military theory and the moral and/or political aspects of leadership strategy over the most recent couple hundred years. Even if you want to imagine that the western mind is wrong about war and leadership, you should at least understand exactly how and what such a dominant culture thinks about how and why it became the dominant culture. Only idiots criticize what they don't understand OR uncritically accept everything that they think they understand.  

Musashi ... [The Book of Five Rings](https://www.amazon.com/Book-Five-Rings-Coterie-Classics-ebook/dp/B01DE645T8) is something of gateway to Eastern thinking on war, discipline and leadership ... which also includes more recent work on the disciplined control of the mind and enlightened living [applicable to modern times] such as Chögyam Trungpa's discussion of [what being a sacred warrior means](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336248.Shambhala) or Trungpa's work, discussing ancient meditation practices, to furnish practical modern approaches to [developing the discipline to control one's mind and being gentle](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/801853.Training_the_Mind_and_Cultivating_Loving_Kindness).

[Jocko Willink](https://twitter.com/jockowillink) is a terribly important author, not just because of his example, but because he is a reader who appreciates outstanding authors that need to be on your reading list ... this not only includes military authors like [David Hackworth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Hackworth) but it also includes others like [Cormac McCarthy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cormac_McCarthy) or the psychology professor [Dr. Jordan Peterson](https://www.amazon.com/Jordan-B.-Peterson/e/B001HMLIKQ).

In spite of the fact, that well over 99.999% of all video/podcast content is a not only a waste of time but a distraction that builds passive thinking habits, it is important to digest and practice the content from [Gracie University](https://gracieuniversity.com/) and maybe a host of other instructors and content generators IF YOU DO NOT HAVE READY ACCESS TO A DOJO WITH QUALIFIED INSTRUCTORS AND A GOOD COMMUNITY OF TRAINING PARTNERS, not just on the principles behind [BJJ basic techiques](https://www.amazon.com/Jiu-Jitsu-University-Saul-Ribeiro-ebook/dp/B018RCI3TC) but maybe even more importantly on BJJ-centered active lifestyle ... this extends to the seminars and content produced by [Rory Miller](https://www.amazon.com/Rory-Miller), et al on conflict communication ... or [David Grossman](https://www.amazon.com/Dave-Grossman/e/B001H6MBBM) and the sheepdog mindset ... or the theory and principles behind arts like Sambo or Krav Maga.
